---
layout: post
title: "Recreate Agar.IO"
date: 2021-06-19
excerpt: "Assignment: Recreate Agar.IO"
tag:
comments: false
---

# Let's Recreate Agar.IO

In the real workplace, you'll be asked to read a tech spec and implement code. Your assignment is to do so with the following tech spec. Good luck!

---

# Recreate Agar.IO Tech Spec

## Summary

Agar.IO is fun and gets fairly complex. You will be implementing a simple version of it.

## Context

The next step is to create a one of the Agar.IO to prove to yourself you have learned. There will be no help or hints, just you and the universe. You should reflect on your *accomplishments* and take inspiration from the concepts and tools from this project. You can [play Agar.IO here]((https://www.miniclip.com/games/agar-io/en/)) to understand the basic mechanics.

## Goals

- Create a blob that gets bigger when it eats food
- Allow the blob to move around based on user controls
- Periodically generate food around the blob

## Non-Goals

- Making the camera center around the blob
- Create enemies that can eat you

## Plan

We will use HTML canvas and create this game with JavaScript. The following are classes that will help shape the mechanics and world-building of the game.

### Renderer
```
  Attributes:
    objects - contains the blob and the food
  Methods:
    render - remove destroyed objects and invokes draw on each objects
```

### Circle
```
  Attributes:
    size - how big the circle is
  Methods:
    draw() - renders the blob onto the screen
```

### Blob
```
  Parent Class:
    Circle
  Attributes:
    size - how big the blob is visually
    velocity - how fast it can move
    position - where it is on the canvas
    direction - where it is going towards
  Methods:
    eat(obj) - takes an object as a parameter
      1. Checks if the object can be eaten
      1. Checks collision with the object
      1. Mark the object as destroyed
    updatePosition() - update the position of the object
```

### Food
```
  Parent Class:
    Circle
  Attributes:
    canBeEaten - a boolean that indicates the object can be eaten
```

---

### Controls

- Make the blob follow the mouse based on the velocity of the blob

### Generating Food

- Generate 30 foods around the blob every 5 seconds

## Other Considerations

- I decided not to ask you to create this document yourself as it may be too difficult. I will be more hands off as you gain more skills, experience and confidence.
- We will not yet simulate other parts of the development process here because that requires more set up and it distracts from the assignment itself.
